Ryan,
OK, here are my comments. Be sure to distribute both electronic and hard 
copies (or ask if the committee members want hard copies) - you can do 
the electronic tonight, and the hard copy tomorrow. You should plan to 
bring the latest hard copy for each member to the defense, also. It's 
also a good idea to remind the committee members (tonight and Thursday) 
that the defense is coming up.
At some point, we should discuss a bit about the defense itself. Anytime 
tomorrow or later should be fine.\
Sorry to take so long to get this back to you.
- John
---------------------------------

Overall, it seems fine to me. Of course, you need to add in figures and 
format in the right way. Some comments:

General:

Be careful about how formally you write. While less formal makes for 
more interesting reading, it can also come across as rambling or less 
thought-out. You don’t want to give the impression in your writing that 
you’re just coming up with the ideas off the top of your head, and 
informal writing can sometimes lead to that impression.

Along those lines, I think it’s OK to keep “Bob” in there, but maybe 
take out some of the informal parts (e.g. “Everyone meet Bob.”).

When you add figures, be sure to add descriptive captions. People should 
be able to look at figures and read captions and get a pretty good idea 
of what’s going on – i.e. you don’t want to tie them in so closely to 
the main text that they can only be useful when looked at in the main text.

When you format into sections and such, you will want to provide 
reference numbers to relevant sections whenever possible. I.e. if you’re 
going to talk about topic X, don’t just say “I will talk about X”, but 
add on “in section Y.Z”

I’m assuming references will be added….

In a few places, I wonder if you are saying “quantitative” when you mean 
to say “qualitative”

Introduction:

You want to say a bit more about exactly what you have done, here. Your 
introduction should read like a summary of the whole thesis – so that 
someone could read the introduction and be able to tell others about 
what you’ve done (though, of course, many details will be missing).

Goals section:

It’s OK as is, but you should mention that there are different goals for 
different applications. Some apps might value one characteristic over 
another one. You’re not trying to come up with the be-all and end-all of 
terrain generation algorithms, but rather a useful algorithm for certain 
applications. Then, (and this is a key area that’s missing right now), 
you should state how Terrainosaurus fits into the goals – i.e. which 
things are you choosing to optimize, why do you choose them, and what 
applications are those good characteristics for.

Background Section:

Obviously, some sections need to be filled in. A couple of things you 
should mention:

- The distinction between regular grids and Triangulated Irregular 
Networks (TINs). Note that TINs can represent overhangs.

- Some information about how the earth’s shape is accounted for in 
spatial reference (things like the ellipsoid measurement, the geode, 
etc.). Not much is needed (this isn’t your focus), but you want to show 
you’re aware of it. I can let you borrow the LOD for 3D graphics book, 
which includes this information, if you want.

“On Choosing a Strategy” section – this seems to be already summarized 
above.

“Levels of Detail” section – needs work. In the part on fractals, I’d 
stay away from the claim of no singularities.

“Methods of Terrain Generation” section is nice. You could always add 
other existing software packages (e.g. maybe put in an example of a 
simulator-based one), but what you have is OK - this should be low 
priority for improving.

“Genetic Algorithms” section – you might want to add in an example to 
illustrate the process for those not familiar with GAs. Not a priority, 
but would be “nice”. You should say a bit more about the objective 
function, as the “features” in the next section seem to come out of nowhere.

“Pattern Analysis” – need more on Fisher’s Linear Discriminant. 
“economic factors”?? Give some examples of features. “discriminating” 
misspelled. See comment about features above. This section feels rather 
choppy (like a collection of ideas, rather than something that flows), 
but that’s OK for the background section.

Be careful about the terms “fitness function” and “objective function” – 
you interchange them and should either say they’re the same, or be 
consistent in which you use.

“Computer Vision” – seems OK.

Methods Section:

Visual Authoring part needs work.

“Optimization Strategy” – deterministic algorithms don’t necessarily 
mean you’ll be stuck in local minima. You can make a case for why 
randomness is better than determinism, but I wouldn’t use this. Second 
bullet point needs revision.

“Boundary Refinement” – last sentence of first paragraph is incomplete

“Boundary Refinement -> Overview” – first sentence of third paragraph is 
incomplete.

“Fitness Evaluation” needs work

“Terrain Library Analysis” needs work

More needed under “Genetic Operators” I assume you’ll talk about 
probabilities, also.

In “Geometric Compatibility”, you should describe WHY you picked the 
values you did. This is a key part – why you have something that’s not 
just pulled out of the air. Even if you don’t have a quantitative 
reason, you can mention that you looked at several terrain types and 
these kept coming up. Also, the current description of the Gaussian 
curve is confusing. Why the ¼ value, for instance? I’m also not clear on 
how it works, though I assume a figure or an earlier explanation would 
clarify it.

“from” misspelled as “fron”

“Localized Guidance….” Last paragraph needs work.

“Cleaning Up” needs work.

Implementation:

Obviously, this has a long way to go. You should be sure to present 
examples here of the interface, the basic operators, and probably 
several sample outputs (maybe several outputs from each of several 
different maps). Things like outputs using the same map with different 
terrain labels per region might be interesting, also.

Discussion Section:

Will you have discussion on the rest of the algorithm (besides Boundary 
Refinement)?

Results and Future Work Section:

As is, this section is entirely focused on future work. I would just 
call this future work, and put results in the “implementation” section 
(or make it its own section).

“introduct” -> “introduce”

Conclusion Section:

You should add more here. This is the place to put an emphasis on what 
“conclusions” can be drawn from the work. It shouldn’t just be a 
summary. Instead, it’s more of a “I’ve shown that this is possible, but 
it leads to these questions, and these areas of future work” That’s why 
future work is often combined with the conclusion.

Another key point, which is not addressed in the remainder of the 
document, is to state what the contribution of this work is – i.e. what 
is new in your thesis that has never been done before – what have you 
contributed to the field of terrain generation. One way of doing this is 
to actually think in terms of a thesis statement – a single statement of 
a fact that you are wanting to show. Then, the rest of your document can 
refer back to show that that idea is being proved/demonstrated.




